Let’s have a look at a few different kinds
of robots. The first one we’re going to
consider is what’s called a Gantry robot
and sometimes called a Cartesian robot. It’s
a robot that allows us to control the position
of the tool-tip in three-dimensional space,
so we can control the X, Y and Z coordinate
of the tool-tip. The Gantry robot has got
a boom which moves in the direction indicated
by the blue arrow and the tool moves along
the boom in the direction shown by the red
arrow. And, finally, the tool itself moves
up and down in the direction indicated by
the green arrow. We have three motion axes,
each orthogonal to the others.
This kind of robot is known as a SCARA robot
and they are widely used in manufacturing
and package handling applications.
The part of the robot that’s highlighted
in red rotates around the axis shown here.
And, the part of the robot that’s highlighted
in blue rotates around this axis. And, finally,
the tool moves up and down along the axis
shown here by the green arrow. Some variants
of the SCARA robots also rotate the tool around
the axis shown by the green dashed line. The
term SCARA is an acronym for Selective Compliance
Articulating Robot and so why the complex
and tortured acronym? But essentially, what
it means is that the robot is quite free to
move in the horizontal plane, but it’s very,
very stiff in the vertical direction and that’s
just a consequence of the way it has been
designed and constructed.
A relatively new class of robot is the parallel
link robot and this is an example of one shown
here. A great advantage of the parallel link
robot is all of the motors can be situated
in the base of the robot and they are connected
via mechanical linkages to the tool. So, there
are a number of mechanical linkages in parallel
connecting the tool to the motors. This is
a very different architecture to the Gantry
robot and the SCARA robot. Those robots are referred
to as serial link robots because there is
a chain of links from the base to the tool-tip.
Here, the links are all in parallel.
Here are a couple of examples of educational
robots. The one on the left is a hobby robot
that has got four mechanical joints connecting
the base to the tool-tip where there is a
parallel jaw or a two-finger gripper.
The Aldebaran NAO robot shown here has got
two arms and two legs. And, each of the arms
and the legs is essentially a serial link
manipulator. In the case of the arms, there
are four joints, two at the shoulder, one
at the elbow and one at the wrist, which control
the position and orientation of the wrist
which holds a number of fingers. And, those
fingers themselves have got a number of joints
within them.
A very common class of robots have got six
axes, the six-axis serial link robot. On the
left, we can see an example of a state of
the art industrial robot which has got six
links. And, on the right, we can see a very
unusual example of a six-axis robot. This
arm is used to load and unload satellites
and other cargo from the shuttle’s payload bay.
Here is a very famous robotic arm in
the history of robot arm development. It was
developed at Stanford University and it’s
commonly known just as the Stanford Robotic
Arm. It was developed in 1969. That’s the
year that people first walked on the moon.
What differentiates this robot arm from robot
arms that are very common today is that it
has got a sliding joint. The third joint in
this robot slides backwards and forwards and
changes the distance between the robot’s
tool, it’s wrist and the base of the robot.
The first company to produce an industrial
robot was Unimation Inc, a Connecticut-based
company and they were founded in 1956 and
installed their first industrial robot in
to a manufacturing plant a couple of years
later. The technology is really quite old.
This is an example of one of those Unimate
robots from 1983. It’s the PUMA 560 robot,
quite a famous robot really in the history
of robotics research. There were many, many
of these robots actively involved in manufacturing,
but there are also a great number of them
in university research labs such as learning
how to hack these robots so that they could
add their own control algorithms to the robot.
So, many, many early robotics research papers
are all based on these particular PUMA robots,
the PUMA 560.